### Energy and Power Aware Job Scheduling and Resource Management

There is a strong interest in predicting and managing power usage for
HPC data centers for many reasons (e.g., more efficient cooling,
avoiding high power usage during peak demand periods).  This requires
a cross-disciplinary approach that addresses different abstraction
layers, from the infrastructure, to hardware, to system software and
up to applications.  The advances at the hardware layer need to be
followed by evolution on systems software and middleware in order to
provide efficient results. Various techniques have achieved a balance
of application performance and power or energy consumption using
technologies like Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling (DVFS).  There
is also research on using resource management and scheduling tools to
monitor energy and power consumption and adjust it through coordinated
actions. Yet another area of research is investigating run-time
operating systems for managing system energy and power.  These
research efforts are making their way into production environments
with implementations at a few leading-edge supercomputing centers.

Lessons learned and best practices are being gained in energy aware
resource management and job scheduling software that relies on power
monitoring hardware. The Energy Efficient HPC Working Group (EE HPC
WG) has created this project to focus on power and energy management
with resource management and scheduling tools.  The initial
deliverable of the team will be a whitepaper that surveys those sites
already deployed and/or are exploring the use of this software for HPC
power and energy management.
